there is missing data due to incomplete reporting, no reporting, and also for persons not seeking care.
we want to start with existing data and then build up an estimate of what the totals would be if there were no missing data. For cases, this is sometimes referred to as a burden estimate.
Lets tackle this in stages with different levels of precision, starting with the most approximate.  Later we can compare the results.
The estimates all require a time period.  Lets start with annual time-frames.
if the value being estimated is an integer, the final value should be an integer.  

Burden A. champion multiple. we start with the mean per champion facility and then want to get the
  total for all non-champions, regardless of what values are in the non-champion. For a given time period, identify all champion facilities in a region (orgunit level 2) and all the non-champion facilities.  Identify the mean value and distribution of the total  value (e.g. 12 months summed) at each  champion facility. Make sure that distribution are all positive values. Do this by category (e.g.age-group). if there are no champion facilities in the region, get mean and distribution from champions in adjacent regions. Then create a distribution of the total in that region by mulitipling the total number of facilities by the distribution obtained from 1000 sample from the champion distribution.  there should be a distribution for each category. Create a mean, upper, and lower estimate. And create a total -sum of all categories.  

  
Burden b. attendance based champion multiple. Similar to A, but also obtain the total attendance and estimate a relationship betwwen the number being estimated (e.g. cases or deaths) and the attendance.  Do this by category. The relationship should include an error term that can be used when predicting a number based on attendance.  Make sure that only positive values predicted. For all non-champion facility, get a distribution of the total attendanceand then use that to predict the value (sample = 1000).  Create burden estimate as the sum all the actual champion values plus the distribution of non-champion values times the number of non-champion facilities.  Create a mean, upper, and lower estimate. And create a total -sum of all categories.  

Burden c.  expected value. create a function to predict missing values within each facilities series.  The prediction should be a distribution where all values are positive. Use all months and include as a covariate that is the total mean monthly value among the champion facilities in the same region.  as with previous, if no champions in the region, use totals for champions in the adjacent regions. for each time period, Stratify non-champions by those where there is an actual or expected value for each month, and those where there are not (because unable to model the values).  If there is a value each month, sum all the values by taking the actual values and sample of the modeled values. Create distribution from 1000 samples.  For facilities that are missing modeled values, try to get a value using burden b.Create a mean, upper, and lower estimate. And create a total -sum of all categories.  

burden d.  care-seeking adjustment. Get an estimate of the total if all persons had sought care.  This will come from a DHS or MIS survey.  from those sources, Come up with a distribution.  Then adjust the total from burden a, b, and c, by dividing by the percent seeking care (taking 1000 samples).  Create a mean, upper, and lower estimate. And create a total -sum of all categories.  For starters, lets assume care seeking is 90% for younger persons, and 70% for older persons. later, We will ger more specific data from the surveys 

Output - a table for national and sub-national totals with confidence interval, plus a map (based ones already in app) colored by the values.

the map should allow for ability to compare regions. If one selects a region, those that are higher are highlighted in red, lower in green.  See process for doing this in the files from ../MagicGlasses2 with 'idiopleth' in title. Inspiration for this feature comes from https://civilstat.com/2012/03/localized-comparisons-idiopleth-maps/.
the idiopleth should look not only at point estimate but whether there is a likely statistical significance.  A paramater will need to be provided. Should the comparisons be calculated once a region selected, or more effective to pre-caclulate all comparison?

If population data available for the region, or can be summed from sub-regions, then use it to create a population adjusted figure (e.g cases/100,000 pop)

Another model to add is the adjusted corrected incidence. Look in ../MagicGlasses2 for .r files that reference it.  There should be code.  This comes from this article which we should reference.  https://www.ajtmh.org/view/journals/tpmd/99/3/article-p670.xml. "How Far Are We from Reaching Universal Malaria Testing of All Fever Cases?" There is a copy of pdf in the zotero app that you can access. Check if r code matches intent of calculations in article. it requires total attendance, number tested, and number positive. All need to be mapped to <5 and >5 age. groups and then there is a constant that needs to be supplied, the percent of patients expected to have fever. A starting point is .75 for <5 and .6 for >5.  The article may have different numbers - if so we should used them.  as with other models, apply this only to chamion facilities - those consistently reporting the elements needed for the caclulation. 


Other methods?  Do a literature search for articles published since 2020 that provide methods for estimating malaria burden, or for comparing incidence between subnational regions.  Of those, do any use routine data (HMIS)?  If yes, we should consider including their method. summarise search method and provide the results -references in the readme section for the burden widget.